---
title:  "Togglz 2.0.0.Alpha1 released"
categories: news
permalink: 2.0.0.Alpha1-released.html
tags: [news, release]
---
*   The most noteworthy change in this version is the new extensible feature activation mechanism, that allows to implement custom strategies for activating features based on arbitrary conditions. As you know, Togglz already allowed to restrict features to a given list of users. Togglz 2.0.0.Alpha1 now also supports to activate features for a given percentage of users (gradual rollouts) or at a specific point in time (timed rollouts). There is also an generic strategy based on Java's [ScriptEngine](http://docs.oracle.com/javase/7/docs/api/javax/script/ScriptEngine.html), that allows you to write strategies using script languages (like JavaScript) and update them at runtime.
*   As Togglz now allows to implement custom strategies for activating features, the data model of the persisted feature state had to change. Togglz will automatically migrate the data persisted by previous versions (like the properties file or the database table) to the new format. However this has one drawback. Older versions of Togglz won't be able to read the new data format any more. So going back to an older version of Togglz will be difficult. So please take special care and backup your state repository data.
*   If you are using a custom implementation of the `StateRepository` interface, you will have to update your implementation to persist the new `FeatureState` data structure. Have a look at the other state repositories if you have any problems.
*   Please note, that although this release is called 2.0.0.Alpha1, it is considered to be very stable. The main reason for calling it Alpha1 instead of CR1 is, that we are looking for community feedback regarding the new APIs.

{% include links.html %}