---
title:  "Togglz 2.0.0.RC1 released"
categories: news
permalink: 2.0.0.RC1-released.html
tags: [news, release]
---

*   Togglz now allows you to manage the lifecycle of the `FeatureManager` using a supported DI container like CDI or Spring. To do so, make sure your container manages an instance of `FeatureManager` (for example by writing a CDI producer method) and then set `org.togglz.FEATURE_MANAGER_PROVIDED` in `web.xml` to `true` to tell Togglz to skip the automatic bootstrapping process for a `FeatureManager` managed by Togglz.
*   Added the factory bean `FeatureManagerFactory` that simplifies the creation of a `FeatureManager` managed by Spring. See the javadocs for [FeatureManagerFactory](http://localhost:4242/apidocs/2.0.0.RC1/org/togglz/spring/manager/FeatureManagerFactory.html) for details.
*   Added a new extension point that allows users to define custom feature metadata attributes. If you are using Java enums for declaring your features, you can now define your own annotations to specify metadata for your features. Togglz already provides two annotations `@Owner` and `@InfoLink` that your can place on your features. If you want to define your own attribute, just create an annotation and place `@FeatureAttribute` on it. Have a look the source of [@Owner](https://github.com/togglz/togglz/blob/master/core/src/main/java/org/togglz/core/annotation/Owner.java){:target="_blank"} for an example.
*   The `EnumBasedFeatureProvider` now supports multiple enums. This means that you can now split your feature toggles across multiple Java enums.
*   If you are running Togglz in an servlet environment, the `TogglzFilter` now tries to autodetect whether it should bootstrap a feature manager itself or if you already created one using a supported container like CDI or Spring. This means that you typically don't have to set `FEATURE_MANAGER_PROVIDED` manually.


{% include links.html %}