---
title:  "Togglz 2.0.0.Beta1 released"
categories: news
permalink: 2.0.0.Beta1-released.html
tags: [news, release]
---
*   The core classes of Togglz don't assume that features are declared using Java enums any more. This allows users to use different approaches to define which features are available. Users could for example use a database to manage the features and their metadata.
*   The new `StaticFeatureManagerProvider` simplifies the configuration of Togglz in standalone applications.
*   Two new activation strategies have been added to Togglz. The _Client IP_ strategy allows to enable features only for a specific number of client IP addresses. This strategy is useful if features should be active for users accessing a site from a specific location. The _Server IP_ strategy behaves similar. But instead of the client IP, it uses the server's IP address. This strategy can be used for canary testing if you want to activate a feature only on a specific server of you cluster.
*   Typically users configure Togglz by implementing the `TogglzConfig` interface. As an alternative to this, you can now implement `TogglzBootstrap` instead. Doing this allows you to configure more aspects of Togglz as you can directly interact with the `FeatureManagerBuilder` instead of just configuring some of it's properties.
*   The new SPI `FeatureManagerListener` has been added which allows you to get notified when Togglz starts up and shuts down. This SPI has been added for other Togglz modules but may also be used directly by the user.
*   The `@WithFeature` annotation of the JUnit integration module now allows to activate multiple feature at once and may even be used if you want to explicitly disable certain features in a test.

{% include links.html %}